README.rst, before:

Srain
=====

**Note:** Srain is still under development.

It does not look like an IRC client :-)

Dependencies
------------

- make          (makedepends)
- gcc           (makedepends)
- pkg-config    (makedepends)
- gettext       (makedepends)
- imagemagick   (makedepends)
- gtk >= 3.16
- python >= 3.2
- libcurl
- libnotify

Build & Debug
-------------

.. code-block:: shell

    mkdir build
    ./configure --prefix=$PWD/build --enable-debug
    make
    make run

Install
-------

Arch Linux
~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: shell

    yaourt -S srain-git # git version
    yaourt -S srain     # latest release

or

.. code-block:: shell

    # Add archlinuxcn mirror, then
    pacman -S archlinuxcn/srain-git

Gentoo
~~~~~~

Look at the `Install Guide <https://github.com/rtlanceroad/gentoo-srain>`_

For Other Linux Distributions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: shell

    # Intall the above dependencies, then
    # Note: the configure script doesn't check dependiencies.
    mkdir build
    ./configure --prefix=/usr/local --disable-debug
    make
    make DESTDIR=/ install

Feature
-------

- Beautiful User Interface
- Relay bot message transform
- Preview image from URL
- Get avatar according to user's real name (plugin)
- Auto upload image to pastebin (plugin)

Screenshot
----------

As you see, its theme is inspired by Telegram Desktop.

.. image:: http://img.tjm.moe/47/ceece073d29563da0c22ab6e8e8c3cdc534113.png

Need Help?
----------

Feel free to contact me if you have any question about srain.

- **IRC Channel**: `#srain <irc://irc.freenode.net/srain>`_ at freenode
- Email: silverrainz at outlook dot com
- Github: file a issue `Here <https://github.com/SilverRainZ/srain/issues>`_

License
-------

GNU General Public License Version 3

Commit message:

Work with prefs, add new dependence libconfig

README.rst, after:

=====
Srain
=====

**Note:** Srain is still under development.

Modern, beautiful IRC client written in GTK+ 3.

Dependencies
------------

- make          (makedepends)
- gcc           (makedepends)
- pkg-config    (makedepends)
- gettext       (makedepends)
- imagemagick   (makedepends)
- gtk >= 3.16
- python >= 3.2
- libcurl
- libnotify
- libconfig

Build & Debug
-------------

.. code-block:: shell

    mkdir build
    ./configure --prefix=$PWD/build --enable-debug
    make
    make run

Install
-------

Arch Linux
~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: shell

    yaourt -S srain-git # git version
    yaourt -S srain     # latest release

or

.. code-block:: shell

    # Add archlinuxcn mirror, then
    pacman -S archlinuxcn/srain-git

Gentoo
~~~~~~

Look at the `Install Guide <https://github.com/rtlanceroad/gentoo-srain>`_

For Other Linux Distributions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: shell

    # Intall the above dependencies, then
    # Note: the configure script doesn't check dependiencies.
    mkdir build
    ./configure --prefix=/usr/local --disable-debug
    make
    make DESTDIR=/ install

Feature
-------

- Beautiful User Interface
- Relay bot message transform
- Preview image from URL
- Get avatar according to user's real name (plugin)
- Auto upload image to pastebin (plugin)

Screenshot
----------

As you see, its theme is inspired by Telegram Desktop.

.. image:: http://img.tjm.moe/47/ceece073d29563da0c22ab6e8e8c3cdc534113.png

Need Help?
----------

Feel free to contact me if you have any question about srain.

- **IRC Channel**: `#srain <irc://irc.freenode.net/srain>`_ at freenode
- Email: silverrainz at outlook dot com
- Github: file an issue `Here <https://github.com/SilverRainZ/srain/issues>`_

License
-------

GNU General Public License Version 3
