doc/faq.rst, before:

==========================
Frequently Asked Questions
==========================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 3
    :backlinks: none

Does Srain support Windows?
===========================

Yes, please refer to :ref:`install-packages-windows`.

.. _faq-relay-message-transform:

What is "relay message transform"?
==================================

There are many relay bots forward messages from other IM to IRC network,
"Relay message transform" make these messages easier to read.

For example, there is a telegram bot named "telegram", the words in brackets
is the named of the telegram user.

.. figure:: _static/srain-render-message-before.png

Run command ``/pattern add normal-relay \[(?<sender>[^:]+?)\] (?<content>.*)``
and ``/render telegram normal-relay``, you get:

.. figure:: _static/srain-render-message-after.png

For more details, please refer to `commands-pattern` and `commands-render`.

Where are the log files?
========================

Refer to :ref:`misc-chat-logs`.

How can I send message which has a slash("/") prefixed?
=======================================================

Please prepend another slash to the message.

Refer to :ref:`commands-syntax`.

How can I remove my stored password?
====================================

Just leave the password entry empty and check the "Remember password" checkbox
before connect to server or join channel, the corresponding password will be
removed.

Or you can use `secret-tool` (provided by libsecret) to manage all your stored
passwords.

How can I hide JOIN/PART messages of channel?
=============================================

So far, Srain has not yet a specialized option for hiding such messages.
You can use write regular expression to filter them::

    /pattern add filter-join ^\w+ has joined$
    /filter filter-join
    /pattern add filter-part ^\w+ has left: .*$
    /filter filter-part

.. NOTE:: The content of regular expression depends on your language.

Why can't I login to my ZNC server?
===================================

According `ZNC's FAQ`_, way  2, supply your "user@phone/network:pass"
(without quotes) in the server password field. Other as usual.

.. NOTE::

   Way 1 in `ZNC's FAQ`_ requires username field can be set via connection panel,
   which will be supported by Srain in the future.


.. _ZNC's FAQ: https://wiki.znc.in/FAQ#Why_do_I_get_an_.22Incorrect_Password.22_every_time_I_connect_even_though_my_pass_is_correct.3F

Commit message:

Doc(update): add link to question issue

doc/faq.rst, after:

==========================
Frequently Asked Questions
==========================

Frequently asked questions are listed here,
you can visit `issue page`_ to see more questions that asked by our users.

.. _issue page: https://github.com/SrainApp/srain/issues?q=label%3Aquestion

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 3
    :backlinks: none

Does Srain support Windows?
===========================

Yes, please refer to :ref:`install-packages-windows`.

.. _faq-relay-message-transform:

What is "relay message transform"?
==================================

There are many relay bots forward messages from other IM to IRC network,
"Relay message transform" make these messages easier to read.

For example, there is a telegram bot named "telegram", the words in brackets
is the named of the telegram user.

.. figure:: _static/srain-render-message-before.png

Run command ``/pattern add normal-relay \[(?<sender>[^:]+?)\] (?<content>.*)``
and ``/render telegram normal-relay``, you get:

.. figure:: _static/srain-render-message-after.png

For more details, please refer to `commands-pattern` and `commands-render`.

Where are the log files?
========================

Refer to :ref:`misc-chat-logs`.

How can I send message which has a slash("/") prefixed?
=======================================================

Please prepend another slash to the message.

Refer to :ref:`commands-syntax`.

How can I remove my stored password?
====================================

Just leave the password entry empty and check the "Remember password" checkbox
before connect to server or join channel, the corresponding password will be
removed.

Or you can use `secret-tool` (provided by libsecret) to manage all your stored
passwords.

How can I hide JOIN/PART messages of channel?
=============================================

So far, Srain has not yet a specialized option for hiding such messages.
You can use write regular expression to filter them::

    /pattern add filter-join ^\w+ has joined$
    /filter filter-join
    /pattern add filter-part ^\w+ has left: .*$
    /filter filter-part

.. NOTE:: The content of regular expression depends on your language.

Why can't I login to my ZNC server?
===================================

According `ZNC's FAQ`_, way  2, supply your "user@phone/network:pass"
(without quotes) in the server password field. Other as usual.

.. NOTE::

   Way 1 in `ZNC's FAQ`_ requires username field can be set via connection panel,
   which will be supported by Srain in the future.


.. _ZNC's FAQ: https://wiki.znc.in/FAQ#Why_do_I_get_an_.22Incorrect_Password.22_every_time_I_connect_even_though_my_pass_is_correct.3F
