doc/installation.rst, before:

============
Installation
============

Srain can run on most GNU/Linux distributions and macOS, Windows support is in
the plan.

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 3
    :backlinks: none

Dependences
===========

=================== =========================== =======
Name                Notes                       Version
=================== =========================== =======
coreutils           building
make                building
gcc                 building
pkg-config          building
imagemagick         building
gettext
glib2
glib-networking     TLS support
gtk+3                                           >= 3.16
python3                                         >= 3.2
libcurl
libnotify
libconfig                                       >= 1.5
python3-sphinx      document
python3-urllib3     avatar and pastebin support
python3-request     avatar and pastebin support
=================== =========================== =======

Manual Installation
===================

You should install the aboved dependencies on your platfrom before manual
installation.

Install Dependences
-------------------

.. note::

    The accurate package name is depending on platform,
    the following commands just for reference.

Arch Linux
~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

    # pacman -S make gcc pkg-config imagemagick # building
    # pacman -S gettext glib-networking gtk3 python curl libnotify libconfig

openSUSE
~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

    # zypper in make gcc pkg-config imagemagick gettext-tools gtk3-devel>=3.16 libcurl-devel python3-devel libnotify-devel libconfig-devel>=1.5 # building
    # zypper in gettext-runtime glib-networking gtk3 python3 libcurl4 libnotify-tools libconfig9>=1.5

Debian & Ubuntu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

    # apt-get install make gcc pkg-config imagemagick gettext libgtk-3-dev>=3.16 libpython3-dev python3-dev libcurl4-dev libnotify-dev libconfig-dev>=1.5 # building
    # apt-get install glib-networking libgtk3.0-0>=3.16 python3 libcurl4 libnotify4 libconfig9>=1.5

macOS
~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

    $ brew install coreutils gcc pkg-config imagemagick # building
    $ brew install gettext glib-networking gtk+3 python3 curl libnotify libconfig

Compile & Install
-------------------

After installing the aboved dependencies, download the source code:

Get stable(require ``wget`` and ``tar``):

.. code-block:: console

    $ wget https://github.com/SilverRainZ/srain/archive/0.06.tar.gz
    $ tar -xvzf 0.06.tar.gz
    $ cd srain-0.06

Get git version(require ``git``):

.. code-block:: console

    $ git clone https://github.com/SilverRainZ/srain.git
    $ cd srain

Complile and install:

.. code-block:: console

    $ ./configure --prefix=/usr/local --config-dir=/usr/local/etc
    $ make
    # make install

.. note::

    The configure script **doesn't** check any dependience. So you should make
    sure that you have fully installed all dependencies.

Install documents:

.. code-block:: console

    $ make doc
    # make install-doc

Distribution Package
====================

Arch Linux
----------

Packages `srain`_ and `srain-git`_ (git version) are available on AUR,
it is quite easy to install using yaourt:

.. code-block:: console

    $ yaourt -S srain
    $ yaourt -S srain-git # git version

If you are the user of `Arch Linux CN Repository`_, try:

.. code-block:: console

    # pacman -S archlinuxcn/srain
    # pacman -S archlinuxcn/srain-git # git version

.. _srain: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/srain
.. _srain-git: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/srain-git
.. _Arch Linux CN Repository: https://www.archlinuxcn.org/archlinux-cn-repo-and-mirror

Gentoo
------

`rtlanceroad`_ maintains `Gentoo ebuilds for Srain`_, please refer to it for
more details.

.. _rtlanceroad: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/srain
.. _Gentoo ebuilds for Srain: https://github.com/rtlanceroad/gentoo-srain

Debian
------

`dfceaef`_ has written `Debian package script for Srain`_, but it is already
**out of date**, I will be glad if anyone can fix it.

.. _dfceaef: https://github.com/yangfl
.. _Debian package script for Srain: https://github.com/SilverRainZ/srain/tree/debian/debian

Commit message:

Support for Creating server and joining channel from IRC URL
- Sui: New event SUI_EVENT_OPEN
- New dependency libsoup for parse URL

doc/installation.rst, after:

============
Installation
============

Srain can run on most GNU/Linux distributions and macOS, Windows support is in
the plan.

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 3
    :backlinks: none

Dependences
===========

=================== =========================== =======
Name                Notes                       Version
=================== =========================== =======
coreutils           building
make                building
gcc                 building
pkg-config          building
imagemagick         building
gettext
glib2
glib-networking     TLS support
gtk+3                                           >= 3.16
python3                                         >= 3.2
libcurl             will be removed soon
libsoup                                         == 2.4
libnotify
libconfig                                       >= 1.5
python3-sphinx      document
python3-urllib3     avatar and pastebin support
python3-request     avatar and pastebin support
=================== =========================== =======

Manual Installation
===================

You should install the aboved dependencies on your platfrom before manual
installation.

Install Dependences
-------------------

.. note::

    The accurate package name is depending on platform,
    the following commands just for reference.

.. warning::

    The new dependency ``libsoup`` hasn't included in the following packages,
    for it is hard to maintains a list of packages  for every platform. Sorry!

Arch Linux
~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

    # pacman -S make gcc pkg-config imagemagick # building
    # pacman -S gettext glib-networking gtk3 python curl libsoup libnotify libconfig

openSUSE
~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

    # zypper in make gcc pkg-config imagemagick gettext-tools gtk3-devel>=3.16 libcurl-devel python3-devel libnotify-devel libconfig-devel>=1.5 # building
    # zypper in gettext-runtime glib-networking gtk3 python3 libcurl4 libnotify-tools libconfig9>=1.5

Debian & Ubuntu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

    # apt-get install make gcc pkg-config imagemagick gettext libgtk-3-dev>=3.16 libpython3-dev python3-dev libcurl4-dev libnotify-dev libconfig-dev>=1.5 # building
    # apt-get install glib-networking libgtk3.0-0>=3.16 python3 libcurl4 libnotify4 libconfig9>=1.5

macOS
~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

    $ brew install coreutils gcc pkg-config imagemagick # building
    $ brew install gettext glib-networking gtk+3 python3 curl libnotify libconfig

Compile & Install
-------------------

After installing the aboved dependencies, download the source code:

Get stable(require ``wget`` and ``tar``):

.. code-block:: console

    $ wget https://github.com/SilverRainZ/srain/archive/0.06.tar.gz
    $ tar -xvzf 0.06.tar.gz
    $ cd srain-0.06

Get git version(require ``git``):

.. code-block:: console

    $ git clone https://github.com/SilverRainZ/srain.git
    $ cd srain

Complile and install:

.. code-block:: console

    $ ./configure --prefix=/usr/local --config-dir=/usr/local/etc
    $ make
    # make install

.. note::

    The configure script **doesn't** check any dependience. So you should make
    sure that you have fully installed all dependencies.

Install documents:

.. code-block:: console

    $ make doc
    # make install-doc

Distribution Package
====================

Arch Linux
----------

Packages `srain`_ and `srain-git`_ (git version) are available on AUR,
it is quite easy to install using yaourt:

.. code-block:: console

    $ yaourt -S srain
    $ yaourt -S srain-git # git version

If you are the user of `Arch Linux CN Repository`_, try:

.. code-block:: console

    # pacman -S archlinuxcn/srain
    # pacman -S archlinuxcn/srain-git # git version

.. _srain: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/srain
.. _srain-git: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/srain-git
.. _Arch Linux CN Repository: https://www.archlinuxcn.org/archlinux-cn-repo-and-mirror

Gentoo
------

`rtlanceroad`_ maintains `Gentoo ebuilds for Srain`_, please refer to it for
more details.

.. _rtlanceroad: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/srain
.. _Gentoo ebuilds for Srain: https://github.com/rtlanceroad/gentoo-srain

Debian
------

`dfceaef`_ has written `Debian package script for Srain`_, but it is already
**out of date**, I will be glad if anyone can fix it.

.. _dfceaef: https://github.com/yangfl
.. _Debian package script for Srain: https://github.com/SilverRainZ/srain/tree/debian/debian
